# 1 Historical reference

# 2 Technical reference
## 2.1 Circulation diagram

## 2.2 Main characteristics
HTGR is a nuclear reactor which deploy helium gas for its coolant, ceramic materials, mainly graphite, for its core structure, and able to supply nuclear heat outside. Since light water reactors use metal cladding tube for its fuel and light water for its coolant, the outlet temperature is limited around 300 deg C. Its power generation efficiency is only 30% using steam turbine. On the other hand, HTGR can produce high temperature heat around 1000 deg C using ceramic materials which offer resistance to high temperatures and apply gas turbine system which can achieve high power generation efficiency more than 45%. Its produced heat can also apply to various industry fields
## 2.3 Circulation diagram

## 2.4 Construction details

### 2.4.1 Fuel and core, coolant, moderator
a) fuel and core : HTGR have coated fuel particle for its fuel. This paticle has UO2 kernel with fourfold ceramic coating and its diameter is smaller than 1mm. Its coating protects the UO2 kernel and confines fission products generated by nuclear fission. The ceramic coating offers resistance to high temperatures so that it will not failure even at temperature of 1600 deg C.For the core structure of HTGRs, graphite is applied.

b) coolant: there are two types of coolant according to the configuration: Helium and Molten salt. 
  Helium has been the coolant used in most HTGRs to date,  ince helium gas is an inert gas, it can carry heat at high temeprature ranges without any chemical reactions   between the fuel.Additionally, exposing helium to neutron radiation does not make it radioactive, unlike most other possible coolants
  
  Molten salt:
  

 c) Moderator : The neutron moderator in HTGR reactor is graphite, Graphite has high radiaiton hardness, heat resistance and thermal conduction, and low neutron absorption characteristic so that it has an ablitity to keep its fuel and nuclear chain reaction by moderating fast neutron.
 
### 2.4.2 Steam generators, heat exchangers

### 2.4.3 Circulators

### 2.4.4 Reactivity control

### 2.4.5 Reactivity control

## 2.5 Systems of the reactor

### 2.5.1 Systems of normal operation

### 2.5.2 Safety systems
Most of current operating nuclear power plants (NPPs) are light-water reactors (LWR). LWR features, as ceramic fuel, metallic fuel cladding, and core structure, use water as coolant and moderator. The safety of NPPs relies on three basic methodologies: reactivity control, residual heat removal, radioactive retention. For NPP, high safety is achieved by proper design, good quality components, different types of safety systems, and engineering safety features, such as reactor trip, emergency core cooling system, safety injection, decay heat removal system, and containment. In the case of LWR, all accidents, even the design extension condition with core melt (before being named as severe accident), can be controlled and mitigated. For this purpose, reliable cooling of the core and removal of residual decay heat are crucial to preventing core melt, and additional measures must be provided to mitigate the consequences of core melt. In this case, containment plays very important roles. Containment provide many functions, such as radiation shielding, physical protection, radioactive retention, maintaining of coolant inventory (which is crucial to cooling the core and removing the decay heat).

High Temperature Gas Cooled Reactor (HTGR) provides another solution. HTGR uses TRISO coated particle fuel, full ceramic core structure, and helium as coolant. The fuel, core structure, and coolant in HTGR can all withstand high temperature. Therefore HTGR can provide high temperature output for high efficiency electricity generation and wide range of process heat applications, including hydrogen production. Furthermore, modular HTGR can provide inherent safety features.

Although it is based on the same safety function requirements, such as reactivity control, residual heat removal, and radioactive retention, modular HTGR achieved the safety in different way.

The reactivity control is very simple for HTGR. Although reactor trip with control rod drop is equipped, the trip of helium circulator is enough for trip reactor, because the negative temperature feedback provides enough reactivity compensation even for large reactivity insertion accident, taking into account the following fact of residual decay removal mechanism.

For the residual heat removal in modular HTGR, after accident, no forced cooling for the core is required; residual heat is removed from core through the core, reflector, and core barrel and then out of pressure vessel, by means of heat conductivity, radiation, and convection, along the temperature gradient. In this case, availability of coolant is not necessary and external power is not required. Of course, the core will be heated up to some degree to provide the temperature gradient for heat transfer and provide the negative temperature feedback for automatic reactor trip for reactivity control. The maximum core temperature after accident is limited by the accumulation of residual heat, which is proportional to the power density during normal operation and to the temperature limit that the integrity of TRISO fuel is ensured to retain all fission products in all accident conditions, with enough margin. Therefore it is a very simple solution. Neither massive fuel degradation nor core melt will be possible. Therefore it provides a very good foundation for radioactive retention.

For radioactive retention, it is also very straightforward for modular HTGR. Because the possibility of massive fuel degradation is physically eliminated, almost all the fission products are retained inside the coating of TRISO particle in normal operation and accident condition. The failure rate of TRISO particle is very low for all accident conditions. Then the maximum plausible radioactive release into environment for all accidents is limited to the extent that no off-site emergency action is needed. The goal of catastrophe-free can be achieved by modular HTGR. For modular HTGR, the most important barrier to radioactive retention is TRISO particle, compared to the containment in LWR, although next barriers of primary pressure boundary and containment (usually named as vented lower pressure containment) are also provided in modular HTGR to reduce the radioactive release as low as reasonably achievable.

### 2.5.3 Support (auxilliary) systems

# 3 Operation experience, problems

# 4 Lessons learnt, future technology development (descendant projects)

